Zhuoran Han
Dr. Lingfei Wu
INFSCI 1520
4/10/2024
Changes in National Material Capacities of the Top Eight Countries in 2016 since 1990
Introduction to Data: 
data source: https://correlatesofwar.org/data-sets/national-material-capabilities/
National Material Capabilities is a dataset that estimates countries’ overall strength by measuring military expenditure, military personnel, energy consumption, iron and steel production, urban population, and total population compared to the rest of the world. A Composite Index of National Capability (CINC) index is assigned to each country annually based on the six parameters listed. CINC reflects an average of a state’s share of the world’s material capability with a maximum value of 1 (100% of the world’s capability) and a minimum value of 0 (0% of the world’s capability). The CINC scores of all countries would add up to 1. Material capability is more relevant to a country’s ability to wage and sustain conflicts than a country’s economic development. The CINC index is valued as the most representative figure of countries’ material capabilities. However, it is also criticized for overlooking other aspects of a country’s capabilities, such as diplomatic relations, cultural popularity, and many different aspects of a country’s soft power. 
Graph and Legend:
 
Methods:
To observe the changes in CINC over time, I first selected the eight countries (USA, Russia, China, S. Korea, Japan, India, and Brazil) with the highest CINC scores at the latest recordings of the scores in 2016. I then picked a timespan of roughly 25 years (from 1990 to 2016) to produce a graph covering a period long enough to observe changes. After extracting the desired countries, time, and CINC values from the dataset, I reordered the countries from lowest (Germany) to highest (China) in 2016 to get a better display of the graph. I then converted the data frame to a dictionary of keys (country names) and their values (CINC scores) recorded each year within the timespan. I also extracted the year column as an individual array for plotting. I plotted the figure as a stream graph using codes we covered in class. I assigned colors to countries to distinguish them, with countries with similar CINC scores in 2016 having colors closer to each other on the light spectrum. I plotted the countries from low CINC to high CINC from the bottom to the top of my graph. I used the X axis to reflect the change of time and the Y axis as the change of CINC scores. I used zero as the baseline of the graph to allow the audience to determine the total CINC score the top 8 countries have as a percentage of the rest of the world. I didn’t apply smoothing methods as this would change the values of CINC scores and cause the graph to become less accurate.

Findings:
-The material capability of the top eight countries is roughly 55% of the world’s power in 1990. This percentage didn’t change significantly from 1990 to 2016, and it is observable that when some countries in the top eight had their CINC scores increased over time, others decreased and negated the change of total CINC scores. 
Even within the top eight countries, there are significant differences in material strength. China and the US together would have more than double the material strength of the other six countries.
-Compared to countries' GDP values, most countries that appear in the top eight CINC have high GDP, indicating that a country’s economy can be highly associated with its material capability. However, CINC also differs from GDP rankings as we notice nations with an advanced arsenal (such as Russia and S. Korea), as well as countries with larger populations and army sizes (such as Brazil and India), ranked higher in CINC scores than in GDP, while strong European economies with high GDP (such as France and Italy) no longer appear as the most competitive. This can reflect that European countries shifted their focus to the economy to compete with the US and other major powers after World War II.
China became the country with the highest CINC score in 1995, while its material capability has significantly increased compared to other countries in the top eight since then. Considering that China only surpassed the US and became the largest economy in 2014, and its GDP is still ranking second after the US at the moment, CINC scores seemed to have forecasted China's rise when most other statistics were lagging behind.

Significance:
The figure presents a change in the material capabilities of the world’s strongest countries and can provide insight into the future balance. CINC scores, combined with other data such as GDP, could help people form a better understanding of nations’ capabilities.
